Health insurance policies can
sometimes be a bit confusing,
but don't worry. Today we are going to
explain the IICI Lombard Elevate Plan in a very simple and clear way
.  To fully understand this policy, let's
talk about these six important points.  This is
like a clear road map for us.  Okay, let's get started
.  To understand any policy,
you must first know some important terms used in it.  This is a
common doubt that many people have. Let's see
what the difference is between this copayment and the deductible.
It's very simple. Copayment
means that we have to pay a percentage of the claim amount received
.  When we
go to a restaurant with friends, we share the bill, right?
And the
deductible is a fixed amount that
we have to pay first before the insurance company pays out.
We often hear the term "cashless facility" as if it were a cover charge to enter a club
.  Simply put, we do
n't have to pay money out of our own pockets.   If you
are admitted to the hospital, the insurance company will
bill the hospital directly
.  But will this cashless
facility be available everywhere?  No.
Only in network provider hospitals, meaning hospitals that are tied up with an insurance company
.  This
process goes very smoothly there.
Okay, now let's get to the real point of the policy
.  So
what is the main purpose of health insurance?  Let's see
what expenses are covered when you are admitted to the hospital
.  An interesting
thing here is that the coverage covers not only the
days spent in the hospital but also medical expenses incurred
90 days before admission to the hospital and up to
180 days after discharge
.  So,
while in the hospital, all such important expenses are covered, from the cost of a single private
AC room to ICU
charges, doctor's fees, anesthesia,
oxygen, medications, and even the equipment used for surgery
.  This gives
an idea of ​​how detailed the inpatient benefit is
.  Now, there
are some special situations where you don't always have to seek treatment in a hospital.
Surprisingly, this policy covers such things too
.  Let's see what it is.
Sometimes you have to receive hospital-like
treatment at home.
This is called domiciliary hospitalization
.  However, there are some conditions for this
.  The doctor must give advice in writing
.  Treatment should continue for at least three
days, but remember that
this does not apply to some common conditions like asthma and arthritis.  Okay, now we
come to a very important topic.
How can we increase our coverage without increasing the premium we pay?
There are two powerful features for this.  This is truly an
amazing benefit.  A
20% loyalty bonus
is added to our sum assured for renewing the policy every year, whether we claim or not.  Look here, a 10 lakh policy
has become 12 lakh in a single year.  Okay,
how much do you think this bonus will increase?
Wow, it's amazing that our original
sum insured is doubled to 100%, in other words,
our coverage doubles in a few years.
Reset benefit can be
considered a safety net or
a free refill for our sum insured.
If our entire policy amount is used up in a claim and we have to be
hospitalized again in the same year for an unrelated illness,
then our sum insured
will be restored to 100%.  So far,
we have talked about diseases and their treatment.  Now let's shift the focus a bit and
move on to health.  Let's see how this policy
encourages healthy habits
.  See,
even the little things we do to stay healthy
earn us points.  You can earn points by completing a health risk
assessment, uploading health checkup
reports, or meeting monthly walking
targets
.
This chart makes it clear.
Half, or 50%, of the wellness points we earn
come from daily habits like walking alone.  Is
n't this a good incentive to stay healthy? This policy not
only covers money but
also provides practical help.
For example, if
you need an ambulance in an emergency, you can arrange it by calling a special helpline, as shown here
.  Finally, let's see
how we can further improve this policy to suit our needs
.  You can add
some special benefits by paying a little extra premium
.  Some of the
important ones are
maternity benefit for pregnancy expenses,
newborn baby cover that provides coverage for the newborn,
benefit cover for OPD expenses like doctor consultations and medicines, and
worldwide cover for treatment outside India. There
are many options like this.  So overall,
this policy is not just a safety net
.  This
will take care of our hospital expenses.  We reward our loyalty with a healthy
lifestyle.  It's like
a complete health partner that we can customize to suit our needs
.  Now think about it, will you look at
your own
insurance documents with a new
perspective after learning these details?  Of all the features
we've
talked about so far, which one of your health policy features would
you like to check more closely now?